README.md, before:

RSpec Rails Examples
====================

> An RSpec cheatsheet in the form of a Rails app. Learn how to expertly test Rails apps from a model codebase

A small yet comprehensive reference for developers who want to know how to test Rails apps using RSpec.

Here you'll find in-depth examples with detailed documentation explaining how to test with RSpec and related testing gems, which you can then apply to your own projects.

This application was originally written for the benefit of the developers I coach, who've found it a useful memory aid and catalyst for when they're learning RSpec. Now I'd like to get feedback from the wider community.

The repo contains examples of various spec types such as feature, mailer, and model. See the [spec/](spec/) directory for all the example specs and types.

In the README below, you'll find links to some of the most useful cheatsheets and API documentation available for RSpec users.

See the well-commented files in the [spec/support](spec/support) directory for walkthroughs on how to configure popular testing gems, such as DatabaseCleaner, Capybara, and FactoryGirl.

Hopefully this will be of help to those of you learning RSpec and Rails. If there's anything missing you'd like to see covered in the project, please submit your request via the [issue tracker](https://github.com/eliotsykes/rspec-rails-examples/issues), I'd be happy to help &mdash; [_Eliot Sykes_](https://eliotsykes.com)



<!-- MarkdownTOC depth=0 autolink=true bracket=round -->

- [Support Configuration](#support-configuration)
- [Testing Rake Tasks with RSpec](#testing-rake-tasks-with-rspec)
- [Pry-rescue debugging](#pry-rescue-debugging)
- [Time Travel Examples](#time-travel-examples)
- [ActiveJob Examples](#activejob-examples)
- [Database Cleaner Examples](#database-cleaner-examples)
- [Factory Girl Examples](#factory-girl-examples)
- [VCR Examples](#vcr-examples)
- [Capybara Examples](#capybara-examples)
- [Puffing Billy Examples](#puffing-billy-examples)
- [Shoulda-Matchers Examples](#shoulda-matchers-examples)
- [Email-Spec Examples](#email-spec-examples)
- [Devise Examples](#devise-examples)
- [Custom Matchers](#custom-matchers)
- [RSpec-Expectations Docs](#rspec-expectations-docs)
- [RSpec-Mocks Specs & Docs](#rspec-mocks-specs--docs)
- [RSpec-Rails](#rspec-rails)
  - [Matchers](#matchers)
  - [Generators](#generators)
  - [Feature Specs & Docs](#feature-specs--docs)
  - [Mailer Specs & Docs](#mailer-specs--docs)
  - [Controller Specs & Docs](#controller-specs--docs)
  - [Helper Specs & Docs](#helper-specs--docs)
  - [Routing Specs & Docs](#routing-specs--docs)
- [Enable Spring for RSpec](#enable-spring-for-rspec)
- [Contributors](#contributors)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->

# Support Configuration

The tests rely on this configuration being uncommented in `spec/rails_helper.rb`, you probably want it uncommented in your app too:
```ruby
# Loads `.rb` files in `spec/support` and its subdirectories:
Dir[Rails.root.join("spec/support/**/*.rb")].each { |f| require f }
```
(The rspec-rails installer generates this line, but it will be commented out.)


# Testing Rake Tasks with RSpec

RSpec testing Rake task configuration and example:
- [spec/support/tasks.rb](spec/support/tasks.rb)
- [spec/tasks/subscription_tasks_spec.rb](spec/tasks/subscription_tasks_spec.rb)

# Pry-rescue debugging
pry-rescue can be used to debug failing specs, by opening pry's debugger whenever a test failure is encountered. For setup and usage see [pry-rescue's README](https://github.com/ConradIrwin/pry-rescue).


# Time Travel Examples

[`ActiveSupport::Testing::TimeHelpers`](http://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Testing/TimeHelpers.html) provides helpers for manipulating and freezing the current time reported within tests. These methods are often enough to replace the time-related testing methods that the `timecop` gem is used for.

`TimeHelpers` configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/time_helpers.rb](spec/support/time_helpers.rb)
- [spec/models/subscription_spec.rb](spec/models/subscription_spec.rb)
- [spec/tasks/subscription_tasks_spec.rb](spec/tasks/subscription_tasks_spec.rb)
- [`travel_to`](http://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Testing/TimeHelpers.html#method-i-travel_to) example: [spec/models/subscription_spec.rb](spec/models/subscription_spec.rb)
- [`ActiveSupport::Testing::TimeHelpers` API documentation](http://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Testing/TimeHelpers.html)


# ActiveJob Examples

[`ActiveJob::TestHelper`](http://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveJob/TestHelper.html) provides help to test ActiveJob jobs.

`ActiveJob::TestHelper` configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/job_helpers.rb](spec/support/job_helpers.rb)
- [spec/jobs/headline_scraper_job_spec.rb](spec/jobs/headline_scraper_job_spec.rb)
- [`ActiveJob::TestHelper` API documentation](http://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveJob/TestHelper.html)


# Database Cleaner Examples

[Database Cleaner](https://github.com/DatabaseCleaner/database_cleaner) is a set of strategies for cleaning your database in Ruby, to ensure a consistent environment for each test run.

Database Cleaner configuration how-to:
- [spec/support/database_cleaner.rb](spec/support/database_cleaner.rb)


# Factory Girl Examples

[Factory Girl](https://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_girl) is a library to help setup test data. [factory_girl_rails](https://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_girl_rails) integrates Factory Girl with Rails.

Factory Girl configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/factory_girl.rb](spec/support/factory_girl.rb)
- [spec/factories](spec/factories)
- [spec/factories/users.rb](spec/factories/users.rb)
- [spec/models/subscription_spec.rb](spec/models/subscription_spec.rb)
- [spec/tasks/subscription_tasks_spec.rb](spec/tasks/subscription_tasks_spec.rb)
- [spec/features/user_login_and_logout_spec.rb](spec/features/user_login_and_logout_spec.rb)


# VCR Examples

[VCR](https://github.com/vcr/vcr) records your test suite's HTTP interactions and replays them during future test runs. Your tests can run independent of a connection to external URLs. These HTTP interactions are stored in cassette files.

VCR configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/vcr.rb](spec/support/vcr.rb)
- [spec/jobs/headline_scraper_job_spec.rb](spec/jobs/headline_scraper_job_spec.rb)
- [Cassette files in spec/support/http_cache/vcr](spec/support/http_cache/vcr)
- [VCR Relish docs](https://relishapp.com/vcr/vcr/docs)
- [VCR API docs](http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/vcr/frames)

# Capybara Examples

[Capybara](https://github.com/jnicklas/capybara) helps you write feature specs that interact with your app's UI as a user does with a browser.

Capybara configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/capybara.rb](spec/support/capybara.rb)
- [spec/features/home_page_spec.rb](spec/features/home_page_spec.rb)
- [spec/features/subscribe_to_newsletter_spec.rb](spec/features/subscribe_to_newsletter_spec.rb)
- [spec/features/user_login_and_logout_spec.rb](spec/features/user_login_and_logout_spec.rb)
- [spec/features/user_registers_spec.rb](spec/features/user_registers_spec.rb)
- [Capybara cheatsheet](https://gist.github.com/zhengjia/428105)
- [Capybara matchers](http://www.rubydoc.info/github/jnicklas/capybara/master/Capybara/Node/Matchers)


# Puffing Billy Examples

[Puffing Billy](https://github.com/oesmith/puffing-billy) is like VCR for browsers used by feature specs. Puffing Billy is a HTTP proxy between your browser and external sites, including 3rd party JavaScript. If your app depends on JavaScript hosted on another site, then Puffing Billy will keep a copy of that JavaScript and serve it from a local web server during testing. This means tests dependent on that JavaScript will carry on working even if the original host cannot be connected to.

If you need to debug Puffing Billy, refer to its output in `log/test.log`.

Puffing Billy configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/puffing_billy.rb](spec/support/puffing_billy.rb)
- [spec/features/share_page_spec.rb](spec/features/share_page_spec.rb)
- [Cache options](https://github.com/oesmith/puffing-billy#caching)
- [Cached responses in spec/support/http_cache/billy](spec/support/http_cache/billy)


# Shoulda-Matchers Examples

[Shoulda-matchers](https://github.com/thoughtbot/shoulda-matchers) make light work of model specs.

shoulda-matchers configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/shoulda_matchers.rb](spec/support/shoulda_matchers.rb)
- [spec/models/subscription_spec.rb](spec/models/subscription_spec.rb)


# Email-Spec Examples

The "Subscribe to newsletter" feature was developed with help from [email_spec](https://github.com/bmabey/email-spec)

email_spec configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/email_spec.rb](spec/support/email_spec.rb)
- [spec/jobs/headline_scraper_job_spec.rb](spec/jobs/headline_scraper_job_spec.rb)
- [spec/mailers/news_mailer_spec.rb](spec/mailers/subscription_mailer_spec.rb)
- [spec/mailers/subscription_mailer_spec.rb](spec/mailers/subscription_mailer_spec.rb)
- [spec/features/subscribe_to_newsletter_spec.rb](spec/features/subscribe_to_newsletter_spec.rb)
- [spec/features/user_registers_spec.rb](spec/features/user_registers_spec.rb)
- [`EmailSpec::Helpers` API documentation](http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/email_spec/EmailSpec/Helpers)
- [`EmailSpec::Matchers` API documentation](http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/email_spec/EmailSpec/Matchers)


# Devise Examples

Specs testing registration, sign-in, and other user authentication features provided by Devise:

- [spec/features/user_login_and_logout_spec.rb](spec/features/user_login_and_logout_spec.rb)
- [spec/features/user_registers_spec.rb](spec/features/user_registers_spec.rb)


# Custom Matchers

You can write your own custom RSpec matchers. Custom matchers can help you write more understandable
specs.

Custom matchers configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/matchers.rb](spec/support/matchers.rb)
- [spec/matchers](spec/matchers)
- [spec/matchers/be_pending_subscription_page.rb](spec/matchers/be_pending_subscription_page.rb)
- Chainable matcher: [spec/matchers/be_confirm_subscription_page.rb](spec/matchers/be_confirm_subscription_page.rb)
- [spec/matchers/have_error_messages.rb](spec/matchers/have_error_messages.rb)
- [spec/features/subscribe_to_newsletter_spec.rb](spec/features/subscribe_to_newsletter_spec.rb)


# RSpec-Expectations Docs
- [RSpec-Expectations API](http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/rspec-expectations/frames)
- [RSpec-Expectations matchers](https://www.relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-expectations/docs/built-in-matchers)
- [Expectations matchers cheatsheet](https://gist.github.com/hpjaj/ef5ba70a938a963332d0)


# RSpec-Mocks Specs & Docs
- [spec/controllers/subscriptions_controller_spec.rb](spec/controllers/subscriptions_controller_spec.rb)
- [spec/mailers/subscription_mailer_spec.rb](spec/mailers/subscription_mailer_spec.rb)
- [spec/models/subscription_spec.rb](spec/models/subscription_spec.rb)
- [RSpec Mocks API](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-mocks/v/3-1/docs)

# RSpec-Rails
See [RSpec Rails](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/3-1/docs) for installation instructions.

## Matchers
- https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/3-1/docs/matchers

## Generators
- https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/3-1/docs/generators

## Feature Specs & Docs
- [spec/features/subscribe_to_newsletter_spec.rb](spec/features/subscribe_to_newsletter_spec.rb)
- [Feature specs API](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/3-1/docs/feature-specs/feature-spec)

## Mailer Specs & Docs
- [spec/mailers/subscription_mailer_spec.rb](spec/mailers/subscription_mailer_spec.rb)
- [Mailer specs API](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/3-1/docs/mailer-specs/url-helpers-in-mailer-examples)

## Controller Specs & Docs
- [spec/controllers/subscriptions_controller_spec.rb](spec/controllers/subscriptions_controller_spec.rb)
- [Controller specs API](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/3-1/docs/controller-specs)
- [Controller specs cheatsheet](https://gist.github.com/eliotsykes/5b71277b0813fbc0df56)

## Helper Specs & Docs
- [spec/helpers/application_helper_spec.rb](spec/helpers/application_helper_spec.rb)
- [Helper specs API](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/3-1/docs/helper-specs/helper-spec)

## Routing Specs & Docs
- [spec/routing/subscriptions_routing_spec.rb](spec/routing/subscriptions_routing_spec.rb)
- [Routing specs API](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/3-1/docs/routing-specs)


# Enable Spring for RSpec

[Spring](https://github.com/rails/spring) is a Rails application preloader. It speeds up development by keeping your application running in the background so you don't need to boot it every time you run a new command.

To take advantage of this boost when you run `bin/rspec`, the `spring-commands-rspec` gem needs to be installed and a new `rspec` binstub needs to be created:

```bash
# 1. Add `spring-commands-rspec` to Gemfile in development and test groups and 
#    install gem:
bundle install

# 2. Spring-ify the `bin/rspec` binstub:
bundle exec spring binstub rspec

# 3. Stop spring to ensure the changes are picked up:
bin/spring stop

# 4. Check bin/rspec is still working:
bin/rspec
```

See the spring-commands-rspec README for up-to-date installation instructions:
https://github.com/jonleighton/spring-commands-rspec

---

# Contributors

- Eliot Sykes https://eliotsykes.com/
- Vitaly Tatarintsev https://github.com/ck3g
- Ryan Wold https://afomi.com/
- Andy Waite http://blog.andywaite.com/
- Your name here, contributions are welcome and easy, just fork the GitHub repo, make your changes, then submit your pull request! Please ask if you'd like some help.

Commit message:

Travis configuration and instructions (Work In Progress)

README.md, after:

RSpec Rails Examples
====================

> An RSpec cheatsheet in the form of a Rails app. Learn how to expertly test Rails apps from a model codebase

A small yet comprehensive reference for developers who want to know how to test Rails apps using RSpec.

Here you'll find in-depth examples with detailed documentation explaining how to test with RSpec and related testing gems, which you can then apply to your own projects.

This application was originally written for the benefit of the developers I coach, who've found it a useful memory aid and catalyst for when they're learning RSpec. Now I'd like to get feedback from the wider community.

The repo contains examples of various spec types such as feature, mailer, and model. See the [spec/](spec/) directory for all the example specs and types.

In the README below, you'll find links to some of the most useful cheatsheets and API documentation available for RSpec users.

See the well-commented files in the [spec/support](spec/support) directory for walkthroughs on how to configure popular testing gems, such as DatabaseCleaner, Capybara, and FactoryGirl.

Hopefully this will be of help to those of you learning RSpec and Rails. If there's anything missing you'd like to see covered in the project, please submit your request via the [issue tracker](https://github.com/eliotsykes/rspec-rails-examples/issues), I'd be happy to help &mdash; [_Eliot Sykes_](https://eliotsykes.com)



<!-- MarkdownTOC depth=0 autolink=true bracket=round -->

- [Support Configuration](#support-configuration)
- [Testing Rake Tasks with RSpec](#testing-rake-tasks-with-rspec)
- [Pry-rescue debugging](#pry-rescue-debugging)
- [Time Travel Examples](#time-travel-examples)
- [ActiveJob Examples](#activejob-examples)
- [Database Cleaner Examples](#database-cleaner-examples)
- [Factory Girl Examples](#factory-girl-examples)
- [VCR Examples](#vcr-examples)
- [Capybara Examples](#capybara-examples)
- [Puffing Billy Examples](#puffing-billy-examples)
- [Shoulda-Matchers Examples](#shoulda-matchers-examples)
- [Email-Spec Examples](#email-spec-examples)
- [Devise Examples](#devise-examples)
- [Custom Matchers](#custom-matchers)
- [RSpec-Expectations Docs](#rspec-expectations-docs)
- [RSpec-Mocks Specs & Docs](#rspec-mocks-specs--docs)
- [RSpec-Rails](#rspec-rails)
  - [Matchers](#matchers)
  - [Generators](#generators)
  - [Feature Specs & Docs](#feature-specs--docs)
  - [Mailer Specs & Docs](#mailer-specs--docs)
  - [Controller Specs & Docs](#controller-specs--docs)
  - [Helper Specs & Docs](#helper-specs--docs)
  - [Routing Specs & Docs](#routing-specs--docs)
- [Enable Spring for RSpec](#enable-spring-for-rspec)
- [Continuous Integration with Travis CI](#continuous-integration-with-travis-ci)
- [Contributors](#contributors)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->

# Support Configuration

The tests rely on this configuration being uncommented in `spec/rails_helper.rb`, you probably want it uncommented in your app too:
```ruby
# Loads `.rb` files in `spec/support` and its subdirectories:
Dir[Rails.root.join("spec/support/**/*.rb")].each { |f| require f }
```
(The rspec-rails installer generates this line, but it will be commented out.)


# Testing Rake Tasks with RSpec

RSpec testing Rake task configuration and example:
- [spec/support/tasks.rb](spec/support/tasks.rb)
- [spec/tasks/subscription_tasks_spec.rb](spec/tasks/subscription_tasks_spec.rb)

# Pry-rescue debugging
pry-rescue can be used to debug failing specs, by opening pry's debugger whenever a test failure is encountered. For setup and usage see [pry-rescue's README](https://github.com/ConradIrwin/pry-rescue).


# Time Travel Examples

[`ActiveSupport::Testing::TimeHelpers`](http://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Testing/TimeHelpers.html) provides helpers for manipulating and freezing the current time reported within tests. These methods are often enough to replace the time-related testing methods that the `timecop` gem is used for.

`TimeHelpers` configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/time_helpers.rb](spec/support/time_helpers.rb)
- [spec/models/subscription_spec.rb](spec/models/subscription_spec.rb)
- [spec/tasks/subscription_tasks_spec.rb](spec/tasks/subscription_tasks_spec.rb)
- [`travel_to`](http://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Testing/TimeHelpers.html#method-i-travel_to) example: [spec/models/subscription_spec.rb](spec/models/subscription_spec.rb)
- [`ActiveSupport::Testing::TimeHelpers` API documentation](http://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Testing/TimeHelpers.html)


# ActiveJob Examples

[`ActiveJob::TestHelper`](http://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveJob/TestHelper.html) provides help to test ActiveJob jobs.

`ActiveJob::TestHelper` configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/job_helpers.rb](spec/support/job_helpers.rb)
- [spec/jobs/headline_scraper_job_spec.rb](spec/jobs/headline_scraper_job_spec.rb)
- [`ActiveJob::TestHelper` API documentation](http://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveJob/TestHelper.html)


# Database Cleaner Examples

[Database Cleaner](https://github.com/DatabaseCleaner/database_cleaner) is a set of strategies for cleaning your database in Ruby, to ensure a consistent environment for each test run.

Database Cleaner configuration how-to:
- [spec/support/database_cleaner.rb](spec/support/database_cleaner.rb)


# Factory Girl Examples

[Factory Girl](https://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_girl) is a library to help setup test data. [factory_girl_rails](https://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_girl_rails) integrates Factory Girl with Rails.

Factory Girl configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/factory_girl.rb](spec/support/factory_girl.rb)
- [spec/factories](spec/factories)
- [spec/factories/users.rb](spec/factories/users.rb)
- [spec/models/subscription_spec.rb](spec/models/subscription_spec.rb)
- [spec/tasks/subscription_tasks_spec.rb](spec/tasks/subscription_tasks_spec.rb)
- [spec/features/user_login_and_logout_spec.rb](spec/features/user_login_and_logout_spec.rb)


# VCR Examples

[VCR](https://github.com/vcr/vcr) records your test suite's HTTP interactions and replays them during future test runs. Your tests can run independent of a connection to external URLs. These HTTP interactions are stored in cassette files.

VCR configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/vcr.rb](spec/support/vcr.rb)
- [spec/jobs/headline_scraper_job_spec.rb](spec/jobs/headline_scraper_job_spec.rb)
- [Cassette files in spec/support/http_cache/vcr](spec/support/http_cache/vcr)
- [VCR Relish docs](https://relishapp.com/vcr/vcr/docs)
- [VCR API docs](http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/vcr/frames)

# Capybara Examples

[Capybara](https://github.com/jnicklas/capybara) helps you write feature specs that interact with your app's UI as a user does with a browser.

Capybara configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/capybara.rb](spec/support/capybara.rb)
- [spec/features/home_page_spec.rb](spec/features/home_page_spec.rb)
- [spec/features/subscribe_to_newsletter_spec.rb](spec/features/subscribe_to_newsletter_spec.rb)
- [spec/features/user_login_and_logout_spec.rb](spec/features/user_login_and_logout_spec.rb)
- [spec/features/user_registers_spec.rb](spec/features/user_registers_spec.rb)
- [Capybara cheatsheet](https://gist.github.com/zhengjia/428105)
- [Capybara matchers](http://www.rubydoc.info/github/jnicklas/capybara/master/Capybara/Node/Matchers)


# Puffing Billy Examples

[Puffing Billy](https://github.com/oesmith/puffing-billy) is like VCR for browsers used by feature specs. Puffing Billy is a HTTP proxy between your browser and external sites, including 3rd party JavaScript. If your app depends on JavaScript hosted on another site, then Puffing Billy will keep a copy of that JavaScript and serve it from a local web server during testing. This means tests dependent on that JavaScript will carry on working even if the original host cannot be connected to.

If you need to debug Puffing Billy, refer to its output in `log/test.log`.

Puffing Billy configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/puffing_billy.rb](spec/support/puffing_billy.rb)
- [spec/features/share_page_spec.rb](spec/features/share_page_spec.rb)
- [Cache options](https://github.com/oesmith/puffing-billy#caching)
- [Cached responses in spec/support/http_cache/billy](spec/support/http_cache/billy)


# Shoulda-Matchers Examples

[Shoulda-matchers](https://github.com/thoughtbot/shoulda-matchers) make light work of model specs.

shoulda-matchers configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/shoulda_matchers.rb](spec/support/shoulda_matchers.rb)
- [spec/models/subscription_spec.rb](spec/models/subscription_spec.rb)


# Email-Spec Examples

The "Subscribe to newsletter" feature was developed with help from [email_spec](https://github.com/bmabey/email-spec)

email_spec configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/email_spec.rb](spec/support/email_spec.rb)
- [spec/jobs/headline_scraper_job_spec.rb](spec/jobs/headline_scraper_job_spec.rb)
- [spec/mailers/news_mailer_spec.rb](spec/mailers/subscription_mailer_spec.rb)
- [spec/mailers/subscription_mailer_spec.rb](spec/mailers/subscription_mailer_spec.rb)
- [spec/features/subscribe_to_newsletter_spec.rb](spec/features/subscribe_to_newsletter_spec.rb)
- [spec/features/user_registers_spec.rb](spec/features/user_registers_spec.rb)
- [`EmailSpec::Helpers` API documentation](http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/email_spec/EmailSpec/Helpers)
- [`EmailSpec::Matchers` API documentation](http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/email_spec/EmailSpec/Matchers)


# Devise Examples

Specs testing registration, sign-in, and other user authentication features provided by Devise:

- [spec/features/user_login_and_logout_spec.rb](spec/features/user_login_and_logout_spec.rb)
- [spec/features/user_registers_spec.rb](spec/features/user_registers_spec.rb)


# Custom Matchers

You can write your own custom RSpec matchers. Custom matchers can help you write more understandable
specs.

Custom matchers configuration how-to and examples:
- [spec/support/matchers.rb](spec/support/matchers.rb)
- [spec/matchers](spec/matchers)
- [spec/matchers/be_pending_subscription_page.rb](spec/matchers/be_pending_subscription_page.rb)
- Chainable matcher: [spec/matchers/be_confirm_subscription_page.rb](spec/matchers/be_confirm_subscription_page.rb)
- [spec/matchers/have_error_messages.rb](spec/matchers/have_error_messages.rb)
- [spec/features/subscribe_to_newsletter_spec.rb](spec/features/subscribe_to_newsletter_spec.rb)


# RSpec-Expectations Docs
- [RSpec-Expectations API](http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/rspec-expectations/frames)
- [RSpec-Expectations matchers](https://www.relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-expectations/docs/built-in-matchers)
- [Expectations matchers cheatsheet](https://gist.github.com/hpjaj/ef5ba70a938a963332d0)


# RSpec-Mocks Specs & Docs
- [spec/controllers/subscriptions_controller_spec.rb](spec/controllers/subscriptions_controller_spec.rb)
- [spec/mailers/subscription_mailer_spec.rb](spec/mailers/subscription_mailer_spec.rb)
- [spec/models/subscription_spec.rb](spec/models/subscription_spec.rb)
- [RSpec Mocks API](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-mocks/v/3-1/docs)

# RSpec-Rails
See [RSpec Rails](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/3-1/docs) for installation instructions.

## Matchers
- https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/3-1/docs/matchers

## Generators
- https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/3-1/docs/generators

## Feature Specs & Docs
- [spec/features/subscribe_to_newsletter_spec.rb](spec/features/subscribe_to_newsletter_spec.rb)
- [Feature specs API](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/3-1/docs/feature-specs/feature-spec)

## Mailer Specs & Docs
- [spec/mailers/subscription_mailer_spec.rb](spec/mailers/subscription_mailer_spec.rb)
- [Mailer specs API](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/3-1/docs/mailer-specs/url-helpers-in-mailer-examples)

## Controller Specs & Docs
- [spec/controllers/subscriptions_controller_spec.rb](spec/controllers/subscriptions_controller_spec.rb)
- [Controller specs API](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/3-1/docs/controller-specs)
- [Controller specs cheatsheet](https://gist.github.com/eliotsykes/5b71277b0813fbc0df56)

## Helper Specs & Docs
- [spec/helpers/application_helper_spec.rb](spec/helpers/application_helper_spec.rb)
- [Helper specs API](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/3-1/docs/helper-specs/helper-spec)

## Routing Specs & Docs
- [spec/routing/subscriptions_routing_spec.rb](spec/routing/subscriptions_routing_spec.rb)
- [Routing specs API](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/v/3-1/docs/routing-specs)


# Enable Spring for RSpec

[Spring](https://github.com/rails/spring) is a Rails application preloader. It speeds up development by keeping your application running in the background so you don't need to boot it every time you run a new command.

To take advantage of this boost when you run `bin/rspec`, the `spring-commands-rspec` gem needs to be installed and a new `rspec` binstub needs to be created:

```bash
# 1. Add `spring-commands-rspec` to Gemfile in development and test groups and 
#    install gem:
bundle install

# 2. Spring-ify the `bin/rspec` binstub:
bundle exec spring binstub rspec

# 3. Stop spring to ensure the changes are picked up:
bin/spring stop

# 4. Check bin/rspec is still working:
bin/rspec
```

See the spring-commands-rspec README for up-to-date installation instructions:
https://github.com/jonleighton/spring-commands-rspec

# Continuous Integration with Travis CI

Travis CI configuration how-to and example:
- [.travis.yml](.travis.yml)
- [Our Travis CI Build!](https://travis-ci.org/eliotsykes/rspec-rails-examples)
- TODO: What is Continous Integration? Why have it?
- TODO: Travis CI README Badge HOWTO

---

# Contributors

- Eliot Sykes https://eliotsykes.com/
- Vitaly Tatarintsev https://github.com/ck3g
- Ryan Wold https://afomi.com/
- Andy Waite http://blog.andywaite.com/
- Your name here, contributions are welcome and easy, just fork the GitHub repo, make your changes, then submit your pull request! Please ask if you'd like some help.
